1. What is the definition of Hive? What is the present version of Hive?
ans:Hive is an open-source data warehouse system that facilitates querying and analysis of large datasets stored in Hadoop.
It provides a SQL-like language called HiveQL or HQL for querying data, which gets translated into MapReduce or Tez jobs that can run on a Hadoop cluster.
The latest version of Hive as of my knowledge cutoff date (September 2021) is Hive 3.1.2, which was released in May 2021.
However, there might be newer versions released after that.

2. Is Hive suitable to be used for OLTP systems? Why?
ans:Hive is not suitable for OLTP (Online Transaction Processing) systems. OLTP systems require low-latency and high-concurrency access to data,
where multiple users can perform frequent small transactions that modify the data in real-time. 
Hive, on the other hand, is designed for OLAP (Online Analytical Processing) systems that deal with large volumes of data and require complex queries and analytics.
Hive is optimized for batch processing of large volumes of data, where the focus is on scanning and aggregating data rather than updating it in real-time. 
Hive queries tend to be long-running, and data is read in batches rather than in real-time, making it unsuitable for OLTP workloads.
Therefore, Hive is not recommended for use in OLTP systems, and other technologies like HBase, Cassandra, or MongoDB are better suited for such workloads.

3. How is HIVE different from RDBMS? Does hive support ACID
transactions. If not then give the proper reason.?
ans:Hive is different from traditional RDBMS (Relational Database Management System) in several ways:
Data Model: RDBMS follows a structured schema with tables, columns, and relationships, whereas Hive follows a schema-on-read approach, 
where the schema is defined at query time.
Query Language: RDBMS uses SQL, while Hive uses HiveQL or HQL, which is similar to SQL but designed for querying Hadoop data.
Performance: Hive is optimized for batch processing of large volumes of data, while RDBMS is optimized for low-latency, high-concurrency access to data.
Scalability: Hive can handle large-scale datasets that can be distributed across multiple nodes, 
whereas RDBMS can struggle with large datasets and may require additional hardware or software to scale.

Hive does not support ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability) transactions. ACID transactions are critical for OLTP systems, 
where data integrity and consistency are crucial. However, Hive is designed for OLAP workloads, where the focus is on processing large volumes of data rather than updating it in real-time.

Hive supports transactions at the statement level, which means that a single query is treated as a transaction, but it does not provide full ACID compliance. 
Hive transactions do not provide isolation, which means that concurrent transactions can interfere with each other, leading to inconsistent results.

Therefore, Hive is not recommended for use in OLTP systems that require ACID compliance. For such workloads, 
traditional RDBMS systems like MySQL, Oracle, or PostgreSQL are better suited.

4. Explain the hive architecture and the different components of a Hive
architecture?
ans:Hive architecture consists of several components that work together to process and analyze large volumes of data stored in Hadoop. The key components of a Hive architecture are:

Metastore: The Metastore is a central repository that stores metadata about Hive tables, columns, partitions, and their relationships. It is typically implemented using a relational database like MySQL, Oracle, or Derby.

Driver: The Driver is responsible for parsing HiveQL queries, optimizing them, and generating execution plans. The Driver communicates with the Compiler and the Execution Engine to execute the query.

Compiler: The Compiler takes the output of the Driver and generates an optimized execution plan that can be executed by the Execution Engine. The Compiler performs several optimizations, including query rewriting, predicate pushdown, and partition pruning.

Execution Engine: The Execution Engine executes the query plan generated by the Compiler. It is responsible for scheduling and coordinating the execution of various stages of the query plan. The Execution Engine can use several execution modes, including MapReduce, Tez, or Spark.

Hive Server: The Hive Server provides a remote interface for clients to submit HiveQL queries and retrieve results. It supports several communication protocols, including JDBC, ODBC, and Thrift.

HCatalog: HCatalog is a storage management layer that provides a unified view of data stored in Hadoop. It allows Hive tables to be accessible by other Hadoop applications like Pig and MapReduce.

Storage Handlers: Storage Handlers are pluggable components that allow Hive to access different storage formats like HDFS, HBase, and Amazon S3. They translate HiveQL queries into the appropriate storage layer format.

5. Mention what Hive query processor does? And Mention what are the
components of a Hive query processor?
ans:The Hive query processor is responsible for processing HiveQL queries and generating an execution plan that can be executed on a Hadoop cluster. The query processor consists of several components that work together to optimize and execute queries efficiently. The main components of a Hive query processor are:

Semantic Analyzer: The Semantic Analyzer parses the HiveQL query and generates a logical plan that represents the meaning of the query. It performs several semantic checks, including type checking, semantic validation, and authorization checks.

Query Planner: The Query Planner takes the logical plan generated by the Semantic Analyzer and generates a physical execution plan. It optimizes the query plan by applying several techniques, including predicate pushdown, join reordering, and partition pruning

6. What are the three different modes in which we can operate Hive?
ans:Hive can be operated in three different modes, which are:

Local Mode: In Local Mode, Hive runs on a single machine, and all the data and metadata are stored on the local file system. It is primarily used for testing and development purposes.

MapReduce Mode: In MapReduce Mode, Hive uses MapReduce as the execution engine to process and analyze data stored in Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS). It is the most common mode of operation for Hive, as it can process large volumes of data in a distributed manner.

Spark Mode: In Spark Mode, Hive uses Apache Spark as the execution engine to process and analyze data stored in HDFS. It provides faster query processing than MapReduce Mode, especially for complex queries and iterative algorithms.

7. Features and Limitations of Hive.
ans:Hive is a popular data warehousing tool that provides a SQL-like interface to analyze and process large datasets stored in Hadoop. Some of the key features of Hive are:

SQL-like interface: Hive provides a familiar SQL-like interface for querying and analyzing large datasets stored in Hadoop. It supports a subset of SQL, which makes it easy for users to get started with Hive.

Scalability: Hive can process and analyze large volumes of data in a distributed manner using Hadoop. It can scale horizontally by adding more nodes to the Hadoop cluster, making it suitable for processing Big Data.

Data Formats: Hive supports a variety of data formats, including structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data. It can read and write data from various data sources, including HDFS, HBase, and Amazon S3.

Data Transformations: Hive supports data transformations, including joins, grouping, filtering, and sorting. It also provides support for user-defined functions (UDFs) and user-defined aggregation functions (UDAFs).

Integration: Hive integrates with other Hadoop tools like Pig, HBase, and Spark. It also provides integration with external BI tools like Tableau, Excel, and QlikView.

Despite its many features, Hive has some limitations that users should be aware of:

Performance: Hive can be slow for some queries, especially those involving complex joins and aggregations. However, it has improved performance with the introduction of new execution engines like Tez and Spark.

Real-time Processing: Hive is not suitable for real-time processing or OLTP systems. It is designed for batch processing and is not optimized for low-latency or interactive queries.

ACID Transactions: Hive does not provide support for ACID transactions, which can be a limitation for some use cases that require transactional processing.

Data Consistency: Hive may not provide consistent data, as it processes data in batches, and there may be some delay in data updates.

8. How to create a Database in HIVE?
ans:CREATE DATABASE database_name;

9. How to create a table in HIVE?
ans:CREATE TABLE table_name (
  column1_name column1_datatype,
  column2_name column2_datatype,
  ...
  columnN_name columnN_datatype
)
[ROW FORMAT row_format]
[STORED AS file_format]


10.What do you mean by describe and describe extended and describe
formatted with respect to database and table
ans:In Hive, the "DESCRIBE" command is used to view the metadata of a table or a database. It provides information about the columns and their data types, partitioning scheme, table location, and other attributes. There are three variants of the "DESCRIBE" command: "DESCRIBE", "DESCRIBE EXTENDED", and "DESCRIBE FORMATTED".

DESCRIBE:
The "DESCRIBE" command without any modifiers is used to view the list of columns in a table along with their data types. For example, to view the columns of the "sales" table created in the previous example, you can use the following command:

DESCRIBE sales;
This will output the list of columns and their data types in the "sales" table.

DESCRIBE EXTENDED:
The "DESCRIBE EXTENDED" command provides additional metadata about a table, such as its partitioning scheme, storage format, and input/output format. For example, to view the extended metadata of the "sales_csv" table created in the previous example, you can use the following command:

DESCRIBE EXTENDED sales_csv;
This will output additional information about the "sales_csv" table, including its storage format, location, and partitioning scheme.

DESCRIBE FORMATTED:
The "DESCRIBE FORMATTED" command provides a detailed view of the metadata of a table or a database in a formatted manner. It includes information such as the table or database name, owner, location, input/output format, and partitioning scheme. For example, to view the formatted metadata of the "sales_csv" table, you can

11.How to skip header rows from a table in Hive?
ans:To skip header rows from a table in Hive, you can use the "TBLPROPERTIES" clause with the "skip.header.line.count" parameter. This parameter specifies the number of header rows to skip when reading data from the table. Here's an example:

Suppose you have a table named "sales_data" that has a header row in the first line of the file. To skip the header row, you can create the table using the following command:


12.What is a hive operator? What are the different types of hive operators?
ans:In Hive, an operator is a symbol or a keyword that is used to perform an operation on one or more expressions or operands. Operators are used in Hive queries to perform various operations such as arithmetic operations, logical operations, and comparison operations. Hive operators can be classified into several types based on the operations they perform. Here are some of the commonly used types of Hive operators:

Arithmetic Operators:
Arithmetic operators are used to perform mathematical operations on numeric data types. Hive supports the following arithmetic operators: "+", "-", "*", "/", and "%".

Comparison Operators:
Comparison operators are used to compare two expressions and return a boolean value. Hive supports the following comparison operators: "=", "<>", "!=", "<", "<=", ">", ">=".

Logical Operators:
Logical operators are used to combine two or more expressions and return a boolean value. Hive supports the following logical operators: "AND", "OR", and "NOT".

Bitwise Operators:
Bitwise operators are used to perform bit-level operations on integer data types. Hive supports the following bitwise operators: "&", "|", "^", "~", "<<", and ">>".

Assignment Operators:
Assignment operators are used to assign a value to a variable. 

13.Explain about the Hive Built-In Functions?
ans:In Hive, built-in functions are a set of pre-defined functions that can be used in Hive queries to perform various operations on data. Hive provides a wide range of built-in functions for different data types, including string, numeric, date/time, and complex data types. Some of the commonly used built-in functions in Hive include:

String Functions:
Hive provides a variety of functions for manipulating string data, such as substring, trim, concat, lower/upper case, and length.

Numeric Functions:
Hive provides various functions for performing mathematical operations on numeric data types, such as absolute, ceiling, floor, round, and sign.

Date/Time Functions:
Hive provides several functions for working with date and time data, such as year, month, day, hour, minute, second, and date/time formatting.


14. Write hive DDL and DML commands.
ans:Here are some examples of Hive DDL and DML commands:

DDL Commands:

Create Database: Creates a new database in Hive.
sql
Copy code
CREATE DATABASE my_database;
Create Table: Creates a new table in Hive.
sql
Copy code
CREATE TABLE my_table (
  id INT,
  name STRING,
  age INT
);
Alter Table: Modifies an existing table in Hive.
sql
Copy code
ALTER TABLE my_table ADD COLUMN salary INT;
Drop Table: Deletes an existing table in Hive.
sql
Copy code
DROP TABLE my_table;
DML Commands:

Insert: Inserts data into a Hive table.
sql
Copy code
INSERT INTO my_table VALUES (1, 'John', 30);
Select: Retrieves data from one or more tables in Hive.
sql
Copy code
SELECT * FROM my_table;
Update: Updates data in a Hive table.
sql
Copy code
UPDATE my_table SET salary = 5000 WHERE name = 'John';
Delete: Deletes data from a Hive table.
sql
Copy code
DELETE FROM my_table WHERE age < 18;


15.Explain about SORT BY, ORDER BY, DISTRIBUTE BY and
CLUSTER BY in Hive.?
ans:In Hive, SORT BY, ORDER BY, DISTRIBUTE BY, and CLUSTER BY are used to control the sorting and partitioning of data in a Hive query. Here is an explanation of each of these clauses:

SORT BY:
SORT BY is used to sort the result set of a query by one or more columns in ascending or descending order. The SORT BY clause does not guarantee any particular order of rows with the same key value.
Example:

vbnet
Copy code
SELECT * FROM my_table SORT BY name;
ORDER BY:
ORDER BY is similar to SORT BY, but it guarantees the order of rows with the same key value. ORDER BY can be used to sort the result set by one or more columns in ascending

16.Difference between "Internal Table" and "External Table" and Mention
when to choose “Internal Table” and “External Table” in Hive?
ans:In Hive, tables can be classified as internal tables or external tables based on how they are managed and stored.

An Internal Table is fully managed by Hive, which means that Hive takes care of the data and metadata of the table. The data is stored in a Hive warehouse directory (a subdirectory of the HDFS user directory). When you drop the table, the data is also deleted.

An External Table, on the other hand, is a table where the data is not managed by Hive. The data is stored in a user-defined location and Hive only manages the metadata. When you drop the table, the data is not deleted.

17.Where does the data of a Hive table get stored?
ans:In Hive, the data of a table can be stored in different locations based on whether it's an internal or external table.

For an internal table, the data is stored in the Hive warehouse directory, which is usually located in HDFS (Hadoop Distributed File System). The Hive warehouse directory is a subdirectory of the user's HDFS directory, and it's managed by Hive. By default, the Hive warehouse directory is "/user/hive/warehouse".

For an external table, the data is stored outside of the Hive warehouse directory. The location of the data is specified by the user when the table is created, and it can be any HDFS directory or any other file system that is accessible by Hadoop.

18.Is it possible to change the default location of a managed table?
ans:Yes, it is possible to change the default location of a managed table in Hive.

By default, the data of a managed table is stored in the Hive warehouse directory, which is a subdirectory of the user's HDFS directory. The location of the Hive warehouse directory can be customized by changing the value of the "hive.metastore.warehouse.dir" configuration property in the Hive configuration file, hive-site.xml.

To change the location of a specific managed table, you can use the "LOCATION" clause when creating or altering the table. 

19.What is a metastore in Hive? What is the default database provided by
Apache Hive for metastore?
ans:in Hive, the metastore is a repository that stores metadata information about the tables, partitions, columns, and other database objects. The metastore serves as a central repository of metadata that is used by Hive to manage and access the data stored in Hadoop.

The metastore in Hive can be implemented using different types of databases, such as MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and Derby. When you create a Hive installation, you need to configure the metastore database to use a specific database management system.

The default metastore database provided by Apache Hive is Derby, which is a lightweight Java-based database management system that is included with Hive. Derby is suitable for small to medium-sized deployments and is easy to set up and use. However, for larger deployments, it's recommended to use a more robust and scalable database system such as MySQL or PostgreSQL.

20.Why does Hive not store metadata information in HDFS?
ans:Hive does not store metadata information in HDFS (Hadoop Distributed File System) because HDFS is optimized for storing large data files, not small metadata files.

HDFS is designed for storing and processing large amounts of data, typically in the form of files that are several gigabytes or even terabytes in size. HDFS is optimized for large-scale batch processing, where the data is read or written in large blocks sequentially.

On the other hand, metadata information in Hive is typically small and frequently accessed. Storing metadata in HDFS would result in many small files, which can lead to performance and scalability issues. Also, HDFS does not support efficient random access to small files, which is necessary for accessing metadata.

To overcome these limitations, Hive uses a separate metadata store, called the metastore, to store metadata information. The metastore can use different types of databases, such as MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and Derby, to store the metadata information. By storing metadata in a separate database, Hive can provide efficient access to metadata information without putting a strain on the HDFS cluster.

21.What is a partition in Hive? And Why do we perform partitioning in
Hive?
ans:In Hive, a partition is a way to divide a table into smaller, more manageable parts based on the values of one or more columns. Each partition is stored as a separate directory or file in HDFS (Hadoop Distributed File System) and contains only the data that matches the partition criteria.

For example, if you have a table that contains sales data, you could partition it by date so that each partition contains only the sales data for a specific date. This can help to improve the performance of queries that filter data based on the date, as the query can skip reading data from partitions that don't match the filter condition.

Partitioning in Hive provides several benefits, including:

Improved query performance: By dividing a large table into smaller partitions, Hive can skip reading data from partitions that don't match the filter condition, which can significantly improve query performance.

Efficient data management: Partitioning can make it easier to manage and organize large datasets. For example, you can easily add or remove partitions as data is added or deleted from the table.

22.What is the difference between dynamic partitioning and static
partitioning?
ans:In Hive, partitioning can be performed in two ways: dynamic partitioning and static partitioning.

Dynamic Partitioning:

Dynamic partitioning is a feature in Hive that automatically creates partitions for data based on the values of specific columns in the data. In dynamic partitioning, Hive determines the partitioning scheme at the time of data insertion or loading. When new data is inserted, Hive dynamically creates partitions based on the specified partition columns.

For example, if you have a table with a date column, and you insert data with different date values, Hive will automatically create partitions for each date value. Dynamic partitioning is useful when you don't know the partition values in advance or when the partition values are constantly changing.

Static Partitioning:

Static partitioning, on the other hand, is a method of partitioning where the partitioning scheme is predefined and the partitions are created in advance. In static partitioning, you define the partitioning scheme at the time of table creation or alteration. You can specify the partition column and the partition values for each partition.

23.How do you check if a particular partition exists?
ans:In Hive, you can check if a particular partition exists by running a query that queries the metadata table that stores information about the partitions. Here's how you can check if a partition exists:

Open the Hive shell and switch to the database that contains the table and partition you want to check.

Run the following command to show the list of partitions for the table:

php
Copy code
SHOW PARTITIONS <table_name>;
This command will show you a list of all partitions for the specified table.

Look for the partition you want to check in the output of the previous command. If the partition exists, it should be listed in the output.

24.How can you stop a partition form being queried?
ans:In Hive, you can stop a partition from being queried by making it unavailable. There are several ways to make a partition unavailable, including the following:

Alter the partition to set its location to a non-existent directory or to a directory that does not contain any data files. You can use the following command to set the partition location:
sql
Copy code
ALTER TABLE <table_name> PARTITION (<partition_column> = '<partition_value>') SET LOCATION '<non-existent_directory>';
Replace <table_name> with the name of the table, <partition_column> with the name of the partition column, <partition_value> with the value of the partition you want to stop from being queried, and <non-existent_directory> with a non-existent directory or a directory that does not contain any data files.

Set the partition to read-only mode. You can use the following command to set the partition to read-only mod


25.Why do we need buckets? How Hive distributes the rows into buckets?
ans:In Hive, buckets are used to organize data within a table or partition to improve query performance. A bucket is a physical sub-division of data based on the values of a specific column or columns. Bucketing helps to reduce the number of files that need to be read for a query, which can improve the query's performance.

When you create a bucketed table in Hive, you specify the number of buckets to create and the columns to use for bucketing. Hive uses a hash function to distribute the rows into buckets based on the value of the bucketing column(s). The hash function determines which bucket a row belongs to by computing a hash value based on the value of the bucketing column(s). The hash value is then used to determine the bucket number, which is a value between 0 and the number of buckets minus 1.

Hive uses the following algorithm to distribute rows into buckets:

Compute the hash value of the bucketing column(s) for each row.

Take the modulo of the hash value with the number of buckets to determine the bucket number.

Write the row to the corresponding bucket file.


26.In Hive, how can you enable buckets?
ans:In Hive, you can enable bucketing for a table by using the CLUSTERED BY keyword in the CREATE TABLE statement. Here's an example of how to create a bucketed table:

sql
Copy code
CREATE TABLE table_name (
  column1 data_type,
  column2 data_type,
  ...
)
CLUSTERED BY (bucketing_column) INTO num_buckets
STORED AS orc;
Replace table_name with the name of your table, column1, column2, etc. with the names of your columns and their respective data types, bucketing_column with the name of the column to use for bucketing, and num_buckets with the number of buckets to create.

Note that the table must be stored in a file format that supports bucketing, such as ORC or Parquet. In the example above, the STORED AS orc clause specifies that the table should be stored in the ORC file format.


27.How does bucketing help in the faster execution of queries?
ans:Bucketing helps to improve the performance of queries in Hive by reducing the amount of data that needs to be read for a query. When a table is bucketed, the data is physically partitioned into a specific number of buckets based on the values of one or more columns.

When you execute a query that includes a filter on the bucketing column(s), Hive only needs to read the data from the relevant buckets. This reduces the amount of data that needs to be read from disk and improves query performance. In addition, because the data is already sorted within each bucket based on the bucketing column(s), Hive can perform certain types of queries, such as joins and aggregations, more efficiently.

For example, suppose you have a large table of customer transactions and you frequently query the table to get the total transaction amount for each customer. If the table is not bucketed, Hive must scan the entire table to perform the aggregation, which can be slow for large tables. However, if you bucket the table by the customer ID column, Hive can perform the aggregation much more efficiently by only scanning the relevant buckets for each customer ID.


28.How to optimise Hive Performance? Explain in very detail.
ans:There are several ways to optimize the performance of Hive queries. Here are some tips:

Partitioning and Bucketing: Partitioning and bucketing can help to improve the performance of Hive queries by reducing the amount of data that needs to be read. Partitioning involves dividing a table into smaller, more manageable parts based on a specific column, while bucketing involves dividing a table into physical buckets based on the values of one or more columns. By partitioning and/or bucketing a table, Hive can skip over irrelevant data and only scan the relevant partitions/buckets, which can significantly improve query performance.

Use ORC or Parquet File Format: ORC and Parquet are columnar storage file formats that are optimized for query performance. These file formats compress data and reduce the number of disk reads required for a query. In addition, they support predicate pushdown, which means that filters are applied at the storage layer rather than in Hive, reducing the amount of data that needs to be read.

Use Vectorization: Hive Vectorization is a feature that allows Hive to process multiple rows in a single batch, reducing the overhead of processing individual rows. This can significantly improve query performance, especially for complex queries.

Use Caching: Hive allows you to cache tables and partitions in memory, which can speed up query execution. You can use Hive's built-in cache feature or a third-party caching solution like Apache Ignite.

29. What is the use of Hcatalog?
ans:HCatalog is a metadata and table management system for Hadoop that provides a central repository for storing and sharing metadata across different Hadoop components, including Hive, Pig, and MapReduce. It allows different Hadoop applications to interact with data stored in HDFS without having to worry about the underlying data format or location.

Some of the key uses of HCatalog are:

Metadata Management: HCatalog provides a centralized metadata management system for Hadoop that allows users to define and store metadata for their data assets in a consistent manner. This metadata includes information about the data schema, location, and other properties that are necessary for managing and querying data in Hadoop.

Data Sharing: HCatalog allows different Hadoop applications to share data easily, regardless of the data format or location. This makes it easier for organizations to collaborate and share data across different teams or departments.

Simplifies Data Access: HCatalog provides a simplified view of data that abstracts away the complexities of the underlying data format and location. This simplifies the process of accessing and querying data in Hadoop, making it easier for business analysts and other non-technical users to work with Hadoop data.

Integration with Other Hadoop Components: HCatalog is integrated with other Hadoop components like Hive, Pig, and MapReduce, making it easier to use these tools to work with Hadoop data.

30. Explain about the different types of join in Hive.
ans:In Hive, there are several types of join available to perform queries on multiple tables simultaneously. The most common types of joins in Hive are:

Inner Join: An inner join returns only the rows that have matching values in both the tables. It is the most commonly used join in Hive.

Left Join: A left join returns all the rows from the left table and matching rows from the right table. If there is no match in the right table, then it returns null.

Right Join: A right join returns all the rows from the right table and matching rows from the left table. If there is no match in the left table, then it returns null.

Full Outer Join: A full outer join returns all the rows from both the tables, including the ones that do not have a matching value in the other table.

Left Semi Join: A left semi join returns all the rows from the left table that have a matching value in the right table.

Left Anti Join: A left anti join returns all the rows from the left table that do not have a matching value in the right table.

Cross Join: A cross join returns the Cartesian product of the two tables, i.e., it returns all possible combinations of rows from both tables.


31.Is it possible to create a Cartesian join between 2 tables, using Hive?
ans:Yes, it is possible to create a Cartesian join between two tables using Hive. A Cartesian join, also known as a cross join, returns all possible combinations of rows from both tables.

To perform a Cartesian join in Hive, you can simply use the CROSS JOIN keyword between the two tables. For example:

sql
Copy code
SELECT *
FROM table1
CROSS JOIN table2;
This will return all possible combinations of rows from table1 and table2. However, 
it is important to note that Cartesian joins can be computationally expensive and can lead to a large number of output rows, 
especially if the tables being joined are large. It is generally recommended to avoid Cartesian joins unless absolutely necessary and to use 
more selective join conditions whenever possible.

32.Explain the SMB Join in Hive?
ans:SMB (Sort-Merge-Bucket) join is a join optimization technique in Hive that combines the benefits of bucketing and sorting to improve join performance. In SMB join, both the tables being joined are bucketed and sorted on the join keys. Then, the sorted and bucketed tables are merged together to perform the join.

The SMB join algorithm works as follows:

Both tables are bucketed on the join key, ensuring that rows with the same join key are stored together in the same bucket.

Both tables are sorted on the join key within each bucket.

The sorted and bucketed tables are merged together, with matching rows from each table combined to form the join resul

33.What is the difference between order by and sort by which one we should
use?
ans:In Hive, both ORDER BY and SORT BY are used to sort the output of a query, but they have some key differences.

ORDER BY is used to sort the data in ascending or descending order based on one or more columns. It ensures that the data is sorted across all reducers and the final output is a single sorted dataset. However, ORDER BY requires all data to be brought to a single reducer, which can cause performance issues for large datasets.

On the other hand, SORT BY is a local sort that sorts the data within each reducer only. It does not guarantee a global sort across all reducers like ORDER BY. Instead, it sorts the data in each reducer separately, and the final output is a concatenation of all sorted datasets. SORT BY can be faster than ORDER BY since it does not require data to be brought to a single reducer, but it can result in partial ordering if there are multiple reducers.

Therefore, the choice between ORDER BY and SORT BY depends on the specific use case and the size of the data. If the data is small enough to fit into a single reducer, then ORDER BY can be used for a global sort. If the data is too large and requires multiple reducers, then SORT BY can be used for a local sort that is faster, but may not guarantee a global order.


34.What is the usefulness of the DISTRIBUTED BY clause in Hive?
ans:In Hive, the DISTRIBUTED BY clause is used to determine how data is distributed across different nodes in a Hadoop cluster. It specifies a column or set of columns that is used to determine the partitioning of data in a table. The DISTRIBUTED BY clause is typically used in conjunction with the CLUSTERED BY clause, which sorts the data within each partition based on the same set of columns.

The DISTRIBUTED BY clause is useful for optimizing performance and parallelism in Hive queries. By distributing data across multiple nodes in a Hadoop cluster based on a specific column or set of columns, Hive can take advantage of parallel processing to speed up queries. For example, if a large table is distributed by a column that is frequently used in joins, then Hive can perform the join more efficiently by distributing the data across nodes and performing parallel processing.

35.How does data transfer happen from HDFS to Hive?
ans:In Hive, data transfer from HDFS to a Hive table happens through the process of data loading. There are multiple ways to load data from HDFS into a Hive table, including:

LOAD DATA command: This command is used to load data from an HDFS file or directory into a Hive table. It supports multiple file formats, including text, sequence files, and Avro files.

INSERT INTO command: This command is used to insert data into an existing Hive table from another Hive table, or from the result of a subquery.

CREATE TABLE AS SELECT command: This command is used to create a new Hive table and populate it with data from the result of a SELECT statement.

Regardless of the method used, the data transfer process from HDFS to Hive involves the following steps:

HDFS input format: Hive uses an input format to read data from HDFS. The input format specifies the file format, compression, and other configuration settings for reading data from HDFS.

Data serialization: The data is deserialized from the input format into an intermediate format that is easier to process in Hive.

Data processing: The data is processed by Hive to perform any necessary transformations or operations on the data, such as filtering, sorting, or aggregating.

Data serialization: The processed data is serialized back into a format that can be stored in HDFS.

HDFS output format: Hive uses an output format to write the data back to HDFS. The output format specifies the file format, compression, and other configuration settings for writing data to HDFS.

36.Wherever (Different Directory) I run the hive query, it creates a new
metastore_db, please explain the reason for it?
ans:The metastore_db directory is created by the Hive metastore service, which is responsible for managing metadata for Hive tables and other objects. When you run a Hive query, the Hive CLI or HiveServer2 service connects to the metastore to retrieve metadata information about the tables and columns referenced in the query.

By default, the metastore service stores its data in the metastore_db directory in the current working directory where the Hive CLI or HiveServer2 service is running. This directory contains an embedded Derby database that is used to store metadata information.

If you run a Hive query from a different directory, a new metastore_db directory will be created in that directory to store the metadata information. This behavior is by design and allows you to run multiple instances of the metastore service from different directories without interfering with each other

37.What will happen in case you have not issued the command: ‘SET
hive.enforce.bucketing=true;’ before bucketing a table in Hive?
ans:If you have not issued the command SET hive.enforce.bucketing=true before bucketing a table in Hive, the table will still be created with the specified number of buckets and the bucketing columns, but the data will not be properly distributed into the buckets. This is because the hive.enforce.bucketing parameter is used to enforce bucketing constraints during query execution.

When hive.enforce.bucketing is set to true, Hive will verify that the data is properly distributed into the correct buckets based on the bucketing columns during query execution. If the data is not properly distributed, Hive will return an error.

38.Can a table be renamed in Hive?
ans:Yes, a table can be renamed in Hive using the ALTER TABLE statement with the RENAME TO clause.

The syntax for renaming a table in Hive is as follows:

css
Copy code
ALTER TABLE table_name RENAME TO new_table_name;
Here, table_name is the name of the table you want to rename, and new_table_name is the new name you want to give the table.

Note that renaming a table in Hive will also rename the associated HDFS directory where the table data is stored, as well as any associated metadata information in the metastore.

39.Write a query to insert a new column(new_col INT) into a hive table at a
position before an existing column (x_col)?
ans:In Hive, it is not possible to insert a new column directly before an existing column. Instead, you need to create a new table with the desired column order and copy the data from the old table into the new table.

The syntax for creating a new table with the desired column order and copying data from the old table is as follows:

sql
Copy code
CREATE TABLE new_table_name (
  new_col INT,
  col1 datatype,
  col2 datatype,
  ...,
  x_col datatype
)
AS
SELECT new_col, col1, col2, ..., x_col
FROM old_table_name;
Here, new_table_name is the name of the new table you want to create, new_col is the name of the new column you want to insert, col1, col2, and so on are the names of the existing columns in the desired order, and old_table_name is the name of the old table you want to copy data from.

40.What is serde operation in HIVE?
ans:In Hive, SerDe (Serializer/Deserializer) stands for a library that enables Hive to read and write data in various formats such as CSV, JSON, Avro, and many more. The SerDe library includes both a serializer and deserializer that help Hive to process structured and unstructured data from tables.

When Hive reads data from a table, it uses a SerDe to deserialize the data into a format that Hive can understand. When Hive writes data to a table, it uses a SerDe to serialize the data into a format that can be stored in the table.

Hive provides a set of built-in SerDes for commonly used data formats, but you can also create your own custom SerDes if needed.

In summary, the SerDe operation in Hive is a key component that enables Hive to process data in various formats by providing a way to serialize and deserialize the data.

41.Explain how Hive Deserializes and serialises the data?
ans:Hive uses SerDe (Serializer/Deserializer) libraries to deserialize and serialize data between Hive tables and Hadoop file formats such as CSV, JSON, Avro, and others. Here is how the SerDe library works during serialization and deserialization:

Deserialization:

The SerDe deserializes the raw bytes of data read from a file or other data source.

The deserialized data is then parsed into structured fields based on the table schema. The SerDe uses the table schema to interpret the raw data and map it to the appropriate fields.

The SerDe then returns the structured data to Hive, where it is processed further or stored in a table.

Serialization:

Hive passes structured data to the SerDe for serialization.

The SerDe maps the structured data to the appropriate fields in the output format, such as CSV or JSON.

The serialized data is then written to a file or other output data source.

Hive provides built-in SerDes for commonly used data formats, such as org.apache.hadoop.hive.serde2.lazy.LazySimpleSerDe for CSV data and org.apache.hadoop.hive.serde2.avro.AvroSerDe for Avro data. If none of the built-in SerDes are suitable for a particular data format, you can create your own custom SerDe by implementing the org.apache.hadoop.hive.serde2.SerDe interface.

42.Write the name of the built-in serde in hive.
ans:
Hive comes with several built-in SerDe libraries for commonly used file formats, including:

LazySimpleSerDe - for handling CSV and TSV files.
AvroSerDe - for handling Avro files.
JsonSerDe - for handling JSON files.
OrcSerDe - for handling ORC files.
ParquetHiveSerDe - for handling Parquet files.
These are just a few examples of the many built-in SerDe libraries available in Hive

43.What is the need of custom Serde?
ans:While Hive comes with built-in SerDe libraries for commonly used file formats, there may be cases where a user needs to work with a file format that is not supported by the built-in SerDe libraries. In such cases, the user can create a custom SerDe to handle the file format.

Custom SerDe libraries can be used to handle any file format that can be deserialized and serialized in Java. Some examples of file formats that might require a custom SerDe include log files, proprietary data formats, and other non-standard formats.

Custom SerDe libraries can be developed using Java or any other programming language that can be compiled to Java bytecode. The custom SerDe must implement the org.apache.hadoop.hive.serde2.SerDe interface and must be registered with Hive using the ADD JAR command. Once registered, the custom SerDe can be used in Hive just like any other built-in SerDe library.

44.Can you write the name of a complex data type(collection data types) in
Hive?
ans:Hive supports several complex data types, also known as collection data types. Some of the collection data types supported by Hive include:

Arrays - denoted by ARRAY<data_type>, where data_type is the data type of the array elements.
Maps - denoted by MAP<key_type, value_type>, where key_type is the data type of the map keys and value_type is the data type of the map values.
Structs - denoted by STRUCT<col_name:col_type [, col_name:col_type]*>, where col_name is the name of the struct field and col_type is the data type of the field.

45.Can hive queries be executed from script files? How?
ans:Yes, Hive queries can be executed from script files. There are different ways to do it, but one of the most common is by using the -f option in the Hive CLI (command-line interface). Here are the steps:

Create a script file with the Hive queries you want to execute. For example, let's say you create a file called my_queries.hql with the following content:
sql
Copy code
-- This is a comment
USE my_database;
SELECT * FROM my_table LIMIT 10;
Save the file in a directory that is accessible from the Hive server.

Open a terminal window and run the following command to start the Hive CLI:

Copy code
hive
Use the -f option to specify the path to the script file you want to execute. For example:
bash
Copy code
hive -f /path/to/my_queries.hql
Hit Enter and wait for the queries to execute. The output will be displayed on the terminal window.
Note that you can also execute Hive queries from other programming languages (such as Python, Java, or Scala) by using Hive's JDBC or ODBC drivers.

46.What are the default record and field delimiter used for hive text files?
ans:The default record delimiter used for Hive text files is the newline character (\n). The default field delimiter used for Hive text files is the tab character (\t).

47.How do you list all databases in Hive whose name starts with s?
ans:ou can use the SHOW DATABASES command with a pattern matching using LIKE operator to list all databases in Hive whose name starts with s. Here's an example query:

sql
Copy code
SHOW DATABASES LIKE 's*';
This will list all databases whose name starts with s.

48.What is the difference between LIKE and RLIKE operators in Hive?
ans:In Hive, both LIKE and RLIKE are comparison operators used to perform pattern matching. The main difference between them is that LIKE matches the pattern exactly as it is specified, while RLIKE matches the pattern using regular expressions.

Here's an example to illustrate the difference:

Suppose we have a table named employees with a column name that contains employee names. The following query using the LIKE operator will match only exact name "John":

sql
Copy code
SELECT * FROM employees WHERE name LIKE 'John';
On the other hand, the following query using the RLIKE operator will match all names that contain "John" in them:

sql
Copy code
SELECT * FROM employees WHERE name RLIKE '.*John.*';
The .* in the regular expression matches any number of characters before and after the pattern "John". Therefore, this query will match names like "John", "John Smith", "Sarah Johnson", etc


49.How to change the column data type in Hive?
ans:In Hive, we can change the data type of a column in a table using the ALTER TABLE command with the CHANGE clause. Here's the syntax:

sql
Copy code
ALTER TABLE table_name CHANGE column_name new_column_name new_data_type;
table_name: the name of the table containing the column
column_name: the name of the column whose data type is to be changed
new_column_name: the new name for the column (optional)
new_data_type: the new data type for the column

50.How will you convert the string ’51.2’ to a float value in the particular
column?
ans:You can use the CAST function in Hive to convert a string to a float value. Here's an example query to convert the string '51.2' to a float value in a particular column:

sql
Copy code
SELECT CAST(column_name AS FLOAT) FROM table_name;
Replace column_name with the name of the column that contains the string value, and table_name with the name of the table. This query will return the float value of the specified column.


51.What will be the result when you cast ‘abc’ (string) as INT?
ans:If you try to cast the string 'abc' to an integer in most programming languages, you will encounter a type conversion error because 'abc' cannot be converted to an integer.

The reason for this is that 'abc' is a sequence of characters, whereas an integer is a numerical value, and therefore cannot be directly converted to an integer.

So, attempting to cast 'abc' as an INT will result in an error or an exception being raised, depending on the programming language being used.

52.What does the following query do?
a. INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE employees
b. PARTITION (country, state)
c. SELECT ..., se.cnty, se.st
d. FROM staged_employees se?
ans:
The given query is an example of an INSERT OVERWRITE SELECT statement used to insert data into a partitioned Hive table named "employees".

a. The "INSERT OVERWRITE" command overwrites the existing data in the specified table with the new data being inserted.

b. The "PARTITION (country, state)" clause specifies that the table is partitioned based on two columns, "country" and "state".

c. The "SELECT" statement selects the data that will be inserted into the table. It includes the necessary columns, and also includes the partition columns "cnty" and "st" in the result set.

d. The "FROM" clause specifies the source of the data to be inserted into the table, which is a staged table named "staged_employees".

Overall, the query is used to insert data from the "staged_employees" table into the "employees" table, overwriting any existing data, and partitioning the data based on the "country" and "state" columns.

53.Write a query where you can overwrite data in a new table from the
existing table.?
ans:o overwrite data in a new table from an existing table, you can use the INSERT OVERWRITE command in combination with a SELECT statement to specify the data that should be inserted into the new table. Here's an example query:

sql
Copy code
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE new_table
SELECT *
FROM existing_table;
In this example, the INSERT OVERWRITE command is used to overwrite any existing data in the "new_table" with the data returned by the SELECT statement. The SELECT statement specifies the columns to be selected from the "existing_table" and is used to retrieve the data that should be inserted into the "new_table".

54.What is the maximum size of a string data type supported by Hive?
Explain how Hive supports binary formats?
ans:In Hive, the maximum size of a string data type depends on the version of the software being used. For Hive 1.2 and later versions, the maximum size is 2 GB (2^31 - 1 bytes), while in earlier versions, the maximum size is 4 GB (2^32 - 1 bytes). However, it's important to note that storing such large strings can have performance implications, and it's generally recommended to store string data as small as possible.

Hive supports binary formats by providing the ability to store binary data in columns of various types. For example, the BINARY type can be used to store binary data in a column, while the ARRAY type can be used to store an array of binary data. Hive also supports file formats that can store binary data, such as Avro, ORC, and Parquet.

55. What File Formats and Applications Does Hive Support?
ans:Hive supports a variety of file formats and applications for storing and processing data. Some of the popular file formats and applications that Hive supports are:

Text Files: Hive supports plain text files, such as CSV, TSV, and other delimiter-separated values, which are easy to read and write.

Sequence Files: Hive supports SequenceFiles, which are flat files consisting of binary key/value pairs that can be used for high-performance data serialization.

ORC (Optimized Row Columnar) Files: ORC files are columnar storage files optimized for Hive workloads. They are highly compressed and allow for faster data access.

Parquet Files: Parquet is a columnar storage file format designed for Hadoop workloads. It's highly compressed and provides a fast and efficient way to store and access data.

Avro Files: Avro is a data serialization format that supports schema evolution. It's designed to be compact and efficient and is used for data interchange between systems.

56.How do ORC format tables help Hive to enhance its performance?
ans:ORC (Optimized Row Columnar) format tables help Hive to enhance its performance in several ways:

Compression: ORC format tables are highly compressed, which reduces the amount of I/O required to read or write data. This results in faster query performance as less data needs to be read from disk.

Columnar storage: ORC format tables store data in a columnar format, which is more efficient than storing data in a row-based format. Columnar storage allows for better compression and enables Hive to read only the columns required for a query, rather than reading the entire row.

Predicate pushdown: ORC format tables support predicate pushdown, which is the ability to filter rows before they are read from disk. This helps to reduce the amount of data that needs to be read from disk, resulting in faster query performance.

57.How can Hive avoid mapreduce while processing the query?
ans:Hive can avoid using MapReduce while processing a query by leveraging other execution engines that are faster and more efficient than MapReduce. Here are a few examples:

Tez: Tez is an application framework that allows Hive to execute queries using a directed acyclic graph (DAG) of tasks, which are optimized for in-memory processing. Tez is faster than MapReduce because it minimizes the number of I/O operations required to complete a task.

Spark: Hive can leverage Apache Spark, an open-source distributed computing system, to execute queries faster and more efficiently. Spark can process data in memory and cache frequently accessed data, which can improve query performance.

LLAP: Hive can also use the Low Latency Analytical Processing (LLAP) engine, which is designed for low-latency queries. LLAP is a long-running daemon that caches frequently accessed data in memory, which can reduce query response time.

58.What is view and indexing in hive?
ans:In Hive, a view is a virtual table that is created by executing a query against one or more tables. A view does not contain any data itself, but instead provides a way to present data from one or more tables in a structured way. Views can be used to simplify complex queries, to provide security by limiting access to specific columns or rows, or to create a logical view of the data that is easier to understand.

Indexing is a feature in Hive that allows users to create indexes on columns in a table, which can improve query performance by reducing the amount of data that needs to be scanned. Indexes work by creating a separate data structure that maps the values in the indexed column to their corresponding rows in the table. When a query is executed that includes a condition on the indexed column, Hive can use the index to quickly locate the relevant rows, rather than scanning the entire table.

Hive supports two types of indexing:

Bitmap Indexes: Bitmap indexes are a type of index that uses a bitmap to represent the values in the indexed column. Each bit in the bitmap represents a distinct value in the column, and the bit is set if the value is present in a particular row.

Compact Indexes: Compact indexes are a type of index that uses a B+ tree data structure to store the values in the indexed column. Compact indexes are more efficient than bitmap indexes for columns with high cardinality, but require more space to store the index.


59.Can the name of a view be the same as the name of a hive table?
ans:Yes, the name of a view can be the same as the name of a Hive table. However, it is generally not recommended to use the same name for both a view and a table, as it can cause confusion and potential conflicts.

When a query is executed that refers to a name that exists as both a table and a view, Hive will prioritize the table over the view. This means that the query will reference the table, rather than the view. To reference the view instead, the query would need to include the keyword VIEW before the name of the view, like this:

sql
Copy code
SELECT * FROM VIEW my_view;
If the name of the view and the table are the same, then the query will always reference the table, regardless of whether the VIEW keyword is included or not. Therefore, it is generally best to use unique names for tables and views to avoid any potential conflicts.

60.What types of costs are associated in creating indexes on hive tables?
ans:There are several types of costs associated with creating indexes on Hive tables, including:

Time cost: Creating an index can take some time, especially if the table being indexed is large. The time required to create an index will depend on factors such as the size of the table, the complexity of the index, and the type of index being created.

Storage cost: Indexes require additional storage space, which can increase the overall storage requirements for a table. The amount of storage required will depend on factors such as the size of the indexed column, the number of distinct values in the column, and the type of index being created.

61.Give the command to see the indexes on a table.
ans:To see the indexes on a table in Hive, you can use the following command
SHOW INDEXES ON <table_name>;

62. Explain the process to access subdirectories recursively in Hive queries.
ans:Hive supports accessing subdirectories recursively through the use of the LOCATION clause in CREATE TABLE and ALTER TABLE statements.

To access subdirectories recursively in Hive queries, you can follow these steps:

Create an external table that points to the root directory of the data. This can be done using the CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE statement, as shown below:

sql
Copy code
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE my_table (
  col1 INT,
  col2 STRING
)
LOCATION '/path/to/root/directory';
Here, the LOCATION clause specifies the root directory of the data.

63.If you run a select * query in Hive, why doesn't it run MapReduce?
ans:When you run a SELECT * query in Hive, it does not necessarily trigger a MapReduce job. This is because Hive uses a query optimizer to determine the most efficient way to execute a query.

If the table has been created with the ORC format or another optimized format, the query optimizer may choose to use a different execution engine that does not require MapReduce, such as the Vectorized Execution Engine (VEE) or the Tez execution engine. These engines can perform faster than MapReduce, especially for simple queries that do not require complex joins or aggregations.

The EXPLODE() function in Hive is used to transform arrays or maps into multiple rows, with each row containing a single element of the array or map. Here are some common use cases of the EXPLODE() function in Hive:

Flattening arrays or maps: When working with data that contains arrays or maps, you may want to break them down into individual elements for further analysis. The EXPLODE() function can be used to transform the array or map into multiple rows, making it easier to work with.

Unpacking data: In some cases, you may have data that is stored in a nested format, such as a JSON document. The EXPLODE() function can be used to unpack the nested data into a more structured format, making it easier to analyze.

64.What are the uses of Hive Explode?
ans:Generating combinations: If you have multiple arrays or maps, you can use the EXPLODE() function to generate all possible combinations of elements from each array or map. This can be useful for tasks such as generating recommendations or finding associations between items.

65. What is the available mechanism for connecting applications when we
run Hive as a server?
ans:Hive can be run as a server using the HiveServer2 component. HiveServer2 provides a mechanism for applications to connect to Hive using various programming languages and protocols. Some of the popular mechanisms for connecting applications to HiveServer2 include:

JDBC: Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) is a widely used API for connecting Java applications to databases. HiveServer2 provides a JDBC driver that allows Java applications to connect to Hive and execute SQL queries.

ODBC: Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) is a standard API for connecting applications to databases. HiveServer2 provides an ODBC driver that allows applications written in various programming languages (such as C++, Python, and Ruby) to connect to Hive and execute SQL queries.

Thrift: Apache Thrift is a cross-language framework for building remote procedure call (RPC) services. HiveServer2 provides a Thrift API that allows applications written in various programming languages to connect to Hive and execute SQL queries.

Beeline: Beeline is a command-line interface (CLI) for HiveServer2 that allows users to connect to Hive and execute SQL queries using a simple command-line interface.

66.Can the default location of a managed table be changed in Hive?
ans:Yes, the default location of a managed table in Hive can be changed by altering the table's location property. The location property specifies the HDFS directory where the table's data is stored. By default, managed tables are stored in the "/user/hive/warehouse" directory in HDFS.

To change the default location of a managed table, you can use the ALTER TABLE statement with the LOCATION clause. For example, to change the location of a managed table named "my_table" to "/my/custom/path", you can use the following command:

sql
Copy code
ALTER TABLE my_table SET LOCATION '/my/custom/path';
This command will update the table's metadata in Hive's metastore to point to the new location. The existing data will not be moved automatically, so you may need to manually move the data to the new location using HDFS commands or tools.

67.What is the Hive ObjectInspector function?
ans:In Hive, the ObjectInspector function is used to inspect the structure and data types of objects. It is a built-in function that allows Hive to understand the structure of data stored in various formats, such as text, CSV, JSON, ORC, and Parquet.

The ObjectInspector function is used internally by Hive to parse data and convert it to a standard format that can be processed by Hive operators. It is also used by custom user-defined functions (UDFs) to access and manipulate the data passed as arguments to the function.

The ObjectInspector function returns an instance of the ObjectInspector class, which provides methods for inspecting the properties of the object. Some of the common methods provided by ObjectInspector include getCategory(), getTypeName(), getStructFieldData(), and getMapValueElement().

68.What is UDF in Hive?
ans:In Hive, UDF stands for User-Defined Function. A UDF is a custom function written by a Hive user to perform a specific operation on data stored in Hive tables. UDFs are used to extend the functionality of Hive by allowing users to define their own functions that can operate on the data stored in Hive.

UDFs in Hive can be written in several programming languages, including Java, Python, and Scala. They can be used in Hive queries to transform data, perform calculations, or manipulate the data in any other way that the user requires. UDFs can be simple or complex, depending on the user's needs.

UDFs in Hive can be classified into three types based on the number of input arguments and return values:

UDF: A UDF takes one or more input arguments and returns a single value.

UDTF: A UDTF (User-Defined Table Function) takes one or more input arguments and returns a table of values, which can be used in a subsequent query.

Generic UDF: A Generic UDF takes one or more input arguments and returns one or more values.

69.Write a query to extract data from hdfs to hive.
ans:To extract data from HDFS to Hive, you can use the LOAD DATA command in Hive. Here's an example query:
LOAD DATA INPATH '/path/to/hdfs/file' INTO TABLE my_table;
In this example, my_table is the name of the Hive table where you want to load the data, and /path/to/hdfs/file is the path to the HDFS file you want to load.

If the file is in a different format than the default format used by Hive (e.g., CSV, JSON, ORC, Parquet), you can specify the file format using the ROW FORMAT and STORED AS clauses.


70.What is TextInputFormat and SequenceFileInputFormat in hive.
ans:TextInputFormat and SequenceFileInputFormat are two input formats in Hive that can be used to read data from files in Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS).

TextInputFormat is the default input format in Hive, and it is used to read text files stored in HDFS. It reads the file line by line and treats each line as a separate record.

SequenceFileInputFormat, on the other hand, is used to read binary files stored in HDFS that are in the Hadoop SequenceFile format. The SequenceFile format is a container format that stores binary key-value pairs. The keys and values can be of any type that can be serialized in Hadoop, including complex data structures.

The benefit of using SequenceFileInputFormat is that it can be more efficient than TextInputFormat for certain types of data. Because the data is stored in a binary format, it can be compressed and processed more quickly than text data.

71.How can you prevent a large job from running for a long time in a hive?
ans:There are several ways to prevent a large Hive job from running for a long time:

Tune Hive Configuration: Hive configuration parameters such as the number of reducers, the size of the Hadoop heap, and the size of the query results cache can have a significant impact on job performance. You can try tuning these parameters to optimize the performance of your job.

Use Partitioning: Partitioning can improve the performance of Hive queries by reducing the amount of data that needs to be scanned. If your data is partitioned, you can restrict your query to a subset of partitions that are relevant to your analysis.

Use Bucketing: Bucketing is a technique for dividing data into more manageable chunks. It can help reduce the amount of data that needs to be scanned for certain types of queries.

Use Sampling: Sampling is a technique for analyzing a representative subset of data to get a general idea of the whole dataset. You can use Hive's built-in sampling functions to randomly select a subset of rows from a table or partition.

72.When do we use explode in Hive?
ans:We use the explode() function in Hive to convert a column with an array or map data type into multiple rows, with each row representing an element of the array or map. This is useful when we want to perform analysis or processing on individual elements of an array or map.

For example, consider the following table:

sql
Copy code
CREATE TABLE orders (
    order_id INT,
    items ARRAY<STRING>
);
Suppose we have data like this:

css
Copy code
1  ["apple", "banana", "orange"]
2  ["pineapple", "mango"]


73.Can Hive process any type of data formats? Why? Explain in very detail
ans:Hive is a data warehousing and analytics tool that is built on top of Hadoop. Hive can process a wide range of data formats, including structured data formats such as CSV, TSV, and Avro, as well as semi-structured formats such as JSON and XML. Hive can also process unstructured data formats such as log files and image data.

Hive supports processing of various data formats because it is designed to work with Hadoop, which is a distributed computing system that is capable of processing large volumes of data. Hadoop provides a scalable and fault-tolerant infrastructure for storing and processing data, and Hive leverages this infrastructure to provide a high-level SQL-like interface for working with data.

Hive uses Hadoop's InputFormat and OutputFormat interfaces to read and write data from and to Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS). Hadoop's InputFormat and OutputFormat interfaces are designed to support a wide range of data formats, and Hive can take advantage of this to support a wide range of data formats as well.

74.Whenever we run a Hive query, a new metastore_db is created. Why?
ans:When we run a Hive query, a new metastore_db is not created. Instead, a metastore service is used to manage the metadata of the Hive tables and other objects such as views and partitions.

The metastore service stores the metadata in a database, which is usually a relational database such as MySQL, PostgreSQL, or Oracle. The database is specified in the Hive configuration and is referred to as the metastore database.

The metastore service is responsible for managing the schema of the metastore database, creating and dropping tables, managing partitions, and handling other metadata operations. When a new table is created in Hive, its metadata is stored in the metastore database. Similarly, when a query is executed, the metastore service retrieves the metadata of the tables and other objects involved in the query and uses it to optimize the query execution.

75.Can we change the data type of a column in a hive table? Write a
complete query.
ans:Yes, we can change the data type of a column in a Hive table using the ALTER TABLE command with the CHANGE keyword. The complete query to change the data type of a column in a Hive table is as follows:

sql
Copy code
ALTER TABLE table_name CHANGE column_name new_column_name new_data_type;
In this query, table_name is the name of the Hive table, column_name is the name of the column whose data type we want to change, new_column_name is the new name of the column (which can be the same as the original name), and new_data_type is the new data type we want to assign to the column.

76.While loading data into a hive table using the LOAD DATA clause, how
do you specify it is a hdfs file and not a local file ?
ans:To specify that the file being loaded using the LOAD DATA clause in Hive is located in HDFS and not on the local file system, we need to provide the complete HDFS path of the file in the LOCATION parameter of the LOAD DATA statement.

For example, suppose we have a file named data.csv stored in the /user/hadoop/data/ directory in HDFS, and we want to load it into a Hive table named my_table. The LOAD DATA statement to achieve this would be:

sql
Copy code
LOAD DATA INPATH '/user/hadoop/data/data.csv' INTO TABLE my_table;
In this statement, we have specified the HDFS path of the data.csv file using the INPATH keyword, and the Hive table my_table where we want to load the data using the INTO TABLE keyword. Note that the LOAD DATA statement will load the data into the table as it is without any transformations, so the file format should be compatible with the table schema.

77.What is the precedence order in Hive configuration?
ans:In Hive, configuration properties can be set at various levels such as the system level, the user level, the session level, or the query level. When there are conflicting values for a configuration property, Hive follows a specific order of precedence to determine which value to use. The order of precedence, from highest to lowest, is as follows:

Query-level properties: These properties are set explicitly in the HiveQL query using the SET command.

Session-level properties: These properties are set using the hiveconf command while starting a Hive session, and they apply to all queries executed in that session.

User-level properties: These properties are set in the hive-site.xml configuration file in the home directory of the user executing the queries.

Hive-site.xml properties: These are global properties set in the hive-site.xml configuration file.

Hadoop configuration properties: These are properties set in the Hadoop configuration files, such as core-site.xml, hdfs-site.xml, etc.


78.Which interface is used for accessing the Hive metastore?
ans:The Hive metastore can be accessed using the Thrift service provided by Hive. Hive Thrift Service is a set of interfaces that provides a way to interact with Hive from different programming languages like Java, Python, PHP, and others. The Thrift interface allows users to connect to the Hive metastore service and perform various operations like creating tables, querying metadata, and managing partitions.

Hive Thrift Service is implemented using Apache Thrift, which is a cross-language framework for building RPC (Remote Procedure Call) services. Apache Thrift provides a simple way to define and implement services that can be accessed from multiple programming languages. The Thrift interface defines a set of data types and functions that can be used to communicate with the Hive metastore service.

79.Is it possible to compress json in the Hive external table ?
ans:Yes, it is possible to compress JSON data in a Hive external table. Hive supports various compression codecs such as gzip, bzip2, snappy, and LZO, which can be used to compress the data in the external table.

To compress the JSON data in the external table, you can specify the compression codec in the table properties using the STORED AS clause. For example, the following query creates an external table with JSON data and compresses it using the gzip codec:

sql
Copy code
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE mytable
(
  id int,
  name string,
  age int
)
ROW FORMAT SERDE 'org.apache.hive.hcatalog.data.JsonSerDe'
STORED AS INPUTFORMAT 'org.apache.hadoop.mapred.TextInputFormat'
OUTPUTFORMAT 'org.apache.hadoop.hive.ql.io.HiveIgnoreKeyTextOutputFormat'
LOCATION '/mytable'
TBLPROPERTIES ('serialization.null.format'='',
               'mapred.output.compress'='true',
               'mapred.output.compression.type'='BLOCK',
               'mapred.output.compression.codec'='org.apache.hadoop.io.compress.GzipCodec');
In this example, we have used the GzipCodec to compress the data. You can replace it with any other supported codec, such as BZip2Codec or SnappyCodec, depending on your requirements.


80.What is the difference between local and remote metastores?
ans:In Hive, the metastore is the central repository that stores metadata about the tables, partitions, columns, and other objects in the Hive ecosystem. It contains information about the schema of the data, as well as the location of the data on the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS).

The metastore can be either local or remote:

Local metastore: In a local metastore, the metadata is stored in a local database that is managed by Hive. This means that the metadata is stored on the same machine as the Hive service. This is the default configuration in Hive, and it is suitable for small-scale deployments where the metadata does not need to be shared across multiple nodes.

Remote metastore: In a remote metastore, the metadata is stored in a separate database that is managed by a dedicated service, such as MySQL or Oracle. This means that the metadata is stored on a separate machine from the Hive service. A remote metastore is useful when you have multiple Hive instances that need to share the same metadata. By using a remote metastore, you can ensure that the metadata is consistent across all the instances.

81.What is the purpose of archiving tables in Hive?
ans:The purpose of archiving tables in Hive is to save the data from a table before it is deleted, so that it can be restored later if needed. Archiving can also help to reduce the amount of disk space used by a table, since the archived data can be stored in a compressed format. The archived data is typically stored in Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) or a cloud storage system like Amazon S3.

Archiving a table in Hive involves creating a backup of the table's data and metadata, and then deleting the table. The backup data can be restored later using the Hive IMPORT command, which reads the data from the archived location and creates a new table from it. This can be useful if the original table was accidentally deleted, or if the data is needed for analysis or reporting purposes.

82.What is DBPROPERTY in Hive?
ans:DBPROPERTY in Hive is a built-in function that allows you to retrieve the value of a Hive database property. Hive database properties are key-value pairs that can be set for a specific database, and are used to configure various aspects of the database.

The syntax for using the DBPROPERTY function in Hive is as follows:
DBPROPERTY(database_name, property_name);
Here, database_name is the name of the Hive database for which you want to retrieve the property value, and property_name is the name of the specific property that you want to retrieve.

For example, to retrieve the value of the "comment" property for a database named "my_db", you can use the following query:

arduino
Copy code
SELECT DBPROPERTY("my_db", "comment");
This function can be useful for retrieving metadata about a Hive database, and can be used in conjunction with other Hive functions and queries to perform advanced data analysis and manipulation.


83.Differentiate between local mode and MapReduce mode in Hive.
ans:In Hive, local mode and MapReduce mode are two different ways of running Hive queries, and they have some key differences.

Local mode: In local mode, Hive runs queries on the local machine where Hive is installed, without using Hadoop or MapReduce. This mode is useful for testing queries and performing basic data analysis on small datasets. In local mode, data is read from and written to local file systems, and there is no distributed processing involved. Local mode is not recommended for production use, as it does not provide the scalability and fault tolerance of MapReduce mode.

MapReduce mode: In MapReduce mode, Hive runs queries using Hadoop MapReduce, which is a distributed processing framework. This mode is used for processing large datasets and is designed to be scalable and fault-tolerant. In MapReduce mode, data is read from and written to Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), which is a distributed file system that provides high-throughput access to data. MapReduce mode provides the ability to parallelize queries across multiple machines, which allows for faster processing of large datasets.

Overall, local mode is suitable for small datasets and basic data analysis, while MapReduce mode is designed for processing large datasets in a distributed environment. The choice between local mode and MapReduce mode depends on the size of the dataset, the complexity of the analysis, and the resources available for running the queries.
